Add federated authorization tutorial (#576)
authzed/docs: app/spicedb/tutorials/federated-authorization/page.mdx

The `document` definition has no idea either one exists.

## Step 2: Resolve each login to an internal user

This is the critical federation step, and it runs in your app on every login. We're going to use the `sub` claim (the stable, unique identifier the IdP promises won't change) from their token, and look up `keycloak_account:<sub>`. That resolves to an internal `user:<uuid>`. A GitHub login does the same thing with GitHub's numeric `account id`.

```
keycloak_account:9f3c…    #bound_to@user:7b1e…
github_account:1119120    #bound_to@user:4a02…
```

1. Read the stable id from the token — the `sub` for Keycloak, the account id for GitHub.
2. Look up `<provider>_account:<id>`'s `bound_to`. If it resolves to a `user`, you're done.
3. If nothing is bound yet, mint a new `user:<uuid>` and write the binding.

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: Key in on the immutable id but never the email. Emails change and get reassigned, so an
  email-keyed binding can silently point at the wrong person.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
  If the lookup errors, fail the login otherwise the system can swallow the error and create a new
  user instead, and a returning user loses all their access.

> </Callout>

Reviewer: Move this callout up one list item - I think we should avoid sequential callouts.

Reviewer: Or put of these as not-callouts in the same location in the document

Author: left them as callouts but moved one up

                object=ObjectReference(object_type="user", object_id="7b1e"),
            ),
        ),
    )],
))
```

</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

You don't grant view, edit, and share separately.
You write `owner`, and the schema computes the rest.

## Step 4: Check a permission

SpiceDB resolves permission by answering a question in the form of "is this `actor` allowed to perform this `action` on this `resource`?" or in this case "can `user:7b1e` view the doc?"

<Tabs items={["zed", "Python"]}>
<Tabs.Tab>

```sh
zed permission check document:readme view user:7b1e
# true
```

</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>

```python
from authzed.api.v1 import CheckPermissionRequest, CheckPermissionResponse

resp = client.CheckPermission(CheckPermissionRequest(
    resource=ObjectReference(object_type="document", object_id="readme"),
    permission="view",
    subject=SubjectReference(
        object=ObjectReference(object_type="user", object_id="7b1e"),
    ),
))
allowed = resp.permissionship == CheckPermissionResponse.PERMISSIONSHIP_HAS_PERMISSION
# allowed == True
```

</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

The check names a `user`, not a Keycloak or GitHub account.
Authentication is upstream; this is downstream.

> They meet at the `user` id and nowhere else.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is the level of detail you want to get to, but this requires the authentication layer to have the mapping as well, because otherwise the calling application doesn't have this association. At $PREVIOUS_JOB we had a set of bindings between Auth0 and our application server that then attached this internal user ID as a custom claim on the JWT. Otherwise you *do* want to check using the identity provided by the IDP, and ideally you note the IDP ID associated with the user somewhere in your application for administration purposes.

Author: I've updated the diagram, which was erroneous as it implied account linking. Now the diagram is more accurate and shows a "many IdPs, many users" flow - which is also what we had discussed. There's intentionally no account linking in the app and the diagram.

client.WriteRelationships(WriteRelationshipsRequest(
    updates=[RelationshipUpdate(
        operation=RelationshipUpdate.OPERATION_TOUCH,
        relationship=Relationship(
            resource=ObjectReference(object_type="document", object_id="readme"),
            relation="viewer",
            subject=SubjectReference(
                object=ObjectReference(object_type="user", object_id="4a02"),
            ),
        ),
    )],
))
```

</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

To build a dashboard, ask the inverse question — which documents can this user see?

<Tabs items={["zed", "Python"]}>
<Tabs.Tab>

```sh
zed permission lookup-resources document view user:4a02
# document:readme
```

</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>

```python
from authzed.api.v1 import LookupResourcesRequest

for resp in client.LookupResources(LookupResourcesRequest(
    resource_object_type="document",
    permission="view",
    subject=SubjectReference(
        object=ObjectReference(object_type="user", object_id="4a02"),
    ),
)):
    print(resp.resource_object_id)  # document:readme
```

</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

That returns everything reachable through any path (owned, editor, or viewer) without those rules living in your app.

> 

Reviewer: General note: I think it's worth calling out the work required to associate users from different identity providers - otherwise the internal user ID is just a layer of indirection.

    relation owner: user
    relation editor: user
    relation viewer: user

    permission edit  = editor + owner
    permission view  = viewer + edit
    permission share = owner
}
```

Write it:

```sh
zed schema write schema.zed
```

`keycloak_account` and `github_account` are separate types, so two providers can't collide on an id.
The `document` definition has no idea either one exists.

## Step 2: Resolve each login to an internal user

This is the critical federation step, and it runs in your app on every login. We're going to use the `sub` claim (the stable, unique identifier the IdP promises won't change) from their token, and look up `keycloak_account:<sub>`. That resolves to an internal `user:<uuid>`. A GitHub login does the same thing with GitHub's numeric `account id`.

```
keycloak_account:9f3c…    #bound_to@user:7b1e…
github_account:1119120    #bound_to@user:4a02…
```

1. Read the stable id from the token — the `sub` for Keycloak, the account id for GitHub.

   <Callout type="warning">
     Key on the immutable id but never the email. Emails change and get reassigned, so an
     email-keyed binding can silently point at the wrong person.
   </Callout>

> 2. Look up `<provider>_account:<id>`'s `bound_to`. If it resolves to a `user`, you're done.

Reviewer 2: > Look up `<provider>_account:<id>`'s `bound_to`.

Can you clarify this? Look up where? Is this a LookupSubjects call? I think it could be, but in the image you put this under "your app" so now I don't know 😅

Author: You are correct, the diagram is not accurate. i'll make the change 
And yep it's a `lookupSubjects` call.

}
```

Write it:

```sh
zed schema write schema.zed
```

`keycloak_account` and `github_account` are separate types, so two providers can't collide on an id.
The `document` definition has no idea either one exists.

## Step 2: Resolve each login to an internal user

This is the critical federation step, and it runs in your app on every login. We're going to use the `sub` claim (the stable, unique identifier the IdP promises won't change) from their token, and look up `keycloak_account:<sub>`. That resolves to an internal `user:<uuid>`. A GitHub login does the same thing with GitHub's numeric `account id`.

```
keycloak_account:9f3c…    #bound_to@user:7b1e…
github_account:1119120    #bound_to@user:4a02…
```

1. Read the stable id from the token — the `sub` for Keycloak, the account id for GitHub.

   <Callout type="warning">
     Key on the immutable id but never the email. Emails change and get reassigned, so an
     email-keyed binding can silently point at the wrong person.
   </Callout>

2. Call SpiceDB `LookupSubjects` on `<provider>_account:<id>`'s `bound_to` relation to get the internal `user`. If it resolves, you're done.

   <Callout type="warning">

>      If the lookup errors, fail the login — otherwise the system can swallow the error and create a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     If the lookup returns zero subjects or more than one subject, abort. Both scenarios mean that something went wrong during account setup.
```

     new user instead, and a returning user loses all their access.
   </Callout>

> 3. If nothing is bound yet, mint a new `user:<uuid>` and write the binding.
> 
> 4. Carry the resolved `user:<uuid>` for the rest of the session. Every later permission check uses it, and never the raw IdP subject. This demo keeps it in a signed session cookie but in production you would probably use a server-side session store or a type of middleware to manage this.
> 
> A first Keycloak login writes one relationship:
> 
> ```sh
> zed relationship create keycloak_account:9f3c bound_to user:7b1e
> ```
> 
> A GitHub login binds its own account to its own internal user:
> 
> ```sh
> zed relationship create github_account:1119120 bound_to user:4a02
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If nothing is bound yet, mint a new `uuid` and write the binding. For example:

---sh
zed relationship create keycloak_account:9f3c bound_to user:7b1e
zed relationship create github_account:1119120 bound_to user:4a02
---

5. Carry the resolved `user:<uuid>` for the rest of the session. Every later permission check uses it, and never the raw IdP subject. This demo keeps it in a signed session cookie but in production you would probably use a server-side session store or a type of middleware to manage this.

```
